Introduce the change detection optimization article (#1134)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/angular/faster-change-detection/index.md

---
layout: post
title: "Optimize Angular's change detection"
subhead: |

>   Faster change detection for better user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Implement faster change detection for better user experience.
```

hero: change-detection.jpg

> alt: Different light bulb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alt: An array of light bulbs with a single bulb turned on.
```

date: 2019-07-09
description: |

>   Optimize the change detection of your app to make it more responsive and faster to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Learn how to optimize your Angular app's change detection to make it more responsive.
```
"faster to use" seems more or less the same as "more responsive"?

authors:
  - mgechev
tags:
  - angular
---

Angular runs its [change detection mechanism](https://angular.io/api/core/ChangeDetectorRef) periodically so that changes to the data model are reflected in an app's view. Change detection can be triggered either manually or through an asynchronous event (for example, a user interaction or an XHR completion).

Change detection is a powerful tool, but if it's run very often, it can trigger a lot of computations and block the main browser thread.

In this post you'll learn how to control and optimize the change detection mechanism by skipping parts of your application and running change detection only when necessary.

## Inside Angular's change detection

To understand how Angular's change detection works, let's look at a sample app!

_You can find the code for the app in [this GitHub repository](https://github.com/mgechev/change-detection-web-dev)._

> ![Sample application](app.png "Sample application")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The app lists employees from two departments in a company—sales and R&D—and has two components:

* `AppComponent`, which is the root component of the app, and
* Two instances of `EmployeeListComponent`, one for sales and one for R&D.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

![Sample application](app.png "Sample application")

```
Sorry I didn't catch this before: we usually put the explanation _before_ the image so readers know what they're looking at.

When the user begins entering the name of a new employee in the input box in an`EmployeeListComponent`, Angular triggers change detection for the entire component tree starting from `AppComponent`. This means that while the user is typing in the text input, Angular is repeatedly recalculating the numeric values associated with each employee to verify that they haven't changed since the last check.

To see how slow this can be, try entering the name of a new employee in the app below:

<div class="glitch-embed-wrap" style="height: 480px; width: 100%;">
  <iframe
    src="https://stackblitz.com/github/mgechev/change-detection-web-dev?embed=1&file=src/app/app.component.ts&view=preview"
    style="height: 100%; width: 100%; border: 0;">
  </iframe>
</div>

You can verify that the slowdown comes from the `fibonacci` function by setting up the [example project](https://github.com/mgechev/change-detection-web-dev) and opening the **Performance** tab of Chrome DevTools.

{% Instruction 'devtools-performance', 'ol' %}

> Now click <span style="width: 13px;height: 13px;background-color: #6E6E6E;display: inline-block;border-radius: 50%;margin-left: 3px;margin-right: 3px;"></span> **Record** (in the top-left corner of the **Performance** panel) and start typing in one of the text boxes in the app. In a few seconds, click **Record** [icon] again to stop recording. Once Chrome DevTools processes all the profiling data it collected, you'll see something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now click **Record** <span style="width: 13px;height: 13px;background-color: #6E6E6E;display: inline-block;border-radius: 50%;margin-left: 3px;margin-right: 3px;"></span> (in the top-left corner of the **Performance** panel) and start typing in one of the text boxes in the app. In a few seconds, click **Record** <span style="width: 13px;height: 13px;background-color: #6E6E6E;display: inline-block;border-radius: 50%;margin-left: 3px;margin-right: 3px;"></span> again to stop recording. Once Chrome DevTools processes all the profiling data it collected, you'll see something like this:
```
Icons go after button label names.

![Performance profiling](profiling.png "Performance profiling in Chrome DevTools")

> If there are many employees in the list, this process may block the browser's UI thread and causes frame drops, which leads to a bad user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are many employees in the list, this process may block the browser's UI thread and cause frame drops, which leads to a bad user experience.
```

## Skipping component subtrees

> When the user is typing in the text input for the sales `EmployeeListComponent` you know that the data in the R&D department isn't changing—so there's no reason to run change detection on its component. To make sure the R&D instance doesn't trigger change detection, set the `changeDetectionStrategy` of `EmployeeListComponent` to `OnPush`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the user is typing in the text input for the _sales_ `EmployeeListComponent` you know that the data in the _R&D_ department isn't changing—so there's no reason to run change detection on its component. To make sure the R&D instance doesn't trigger change detection, set the `changeDetectionStrategy` of `EmployeeListComponent` to `OnPush`:
```
I think the extra emphasis makes it easier to follow the logic of the sentence.
